Hello everyone, let's friends, subscribers,
viewers, let's start such an
indefinite marathon with you. I'm switching to
Ukrainian, many of you write in
the comments.
I'm shy, I'm worried,
don't be afraid, let's do something like this,
each of you who decided to consciously switch
to the Ukrainian language can record a
short video
for 10 seconds, 20 for 30
seconds, and so on, in order to
motivate others to switch to
Ukrainian, record it, for example, after the
aggression began, I
decided  switch to Ukrainian Yes, it
is difficult for me now, but I already
feel more free there. I already communicate
with my wife and children, for example, in
Ukrainian. I already try to communicate in Ukrainian in the store.
do you think that they themselves are the only ones who have
decided to move and they are somehow sad, it is
difficult for them, they need support when
millions of our compatriots will
see oh look, so many people are not
afraid and are not worried that it
will be difficult, it will somehow not
look like that, so it will be  give them
great support and more and more people
will switch to Ukrainian and you
will feel
like a part of a huge huge
community of gentle Ukrainianization, I will
tell you my personal experience yes
again this word yes
Parasite must get rid of it in
2002 or so I switched to the Ukrainian
language
At school I  I studied the first three grades in a
Russian-language school, then the
Union began to collapse, it was possible to transfer to a
school that did not belong to me, I was transferred to a Ukrainian-language school for the
fourth grade from the 5th
grade.
such an environment was in the
9th-10th-11th grade, I returned to Ukraine, I had a
school, but mostly
friends and family, they communicated more in
Russian. Yes, we were all divorced,
although
our parents, grandparents, and grandparents were all
Ukrainian-speaking. Yes, but this young
generation, due to Russification, has already  it came from
Russia,
we had the Ukrainian language
in the junior grades, I remember in the third
grade there were two lessons a week, as you know,
like a foreign language. That's how she taught us, everything else
was taught in Russian, and that's how we were taught in
Russian in the second course somewhere. Yes,
I got in touch  very cool
national-patriotic communities of
my city, yes, this word again, so you must
know the marathon on
Ukrainization and the marathon on how to get rid of
parasitic words, but I have already started to
control it
and I made a decision for myself that I
will consciously switch to the full
use of the Ukrainian language. The first three
months were  a little fragile You spoke in
such words, it seemed to you, but it
somehow does not sound like that, and it is something,
let's say, wrong, and somewhere you made a mistake,
and you thought to yourself, oh my God, maybe something is
wrong, but for this you have to work hard and
move forward in about six months, a year
for me  some people asked that you have such a
beautiful Ukrainian language, you are probably from
Lviv,
that's why my friends, subscribers, viewers of everyone
who wants to switch to the Ukrainian language, don't be
ashamed, don't be ashamed of yourself, it's a matter of
habit.
wonder
what Russian words are. Now I'm not sure how it is in
Russian, will you remember them if you
already communicate in Ukrainian, so
encourage your friends to switch to
Ukrainian, send them this video, maybe
it will help them Maybe they will write down
their video and say everything Me and my cat and
my dog ​​Sirko  we decided to switch to
Ukrainian and from now on we will try to
communicate in Ukrainian, someone will record
a video and tell us how he is, I have been
trying to switch to Ukrainian for a month, how
difficult it is for him, I slip somewhere, but he is
moving forward, nothing is
impossible, it is not Chinese for us
and not some other difficult language, Hungarian there
with
26 cases, for example, if I'm not
mistaken, it's very, very easy for six months
and you won't notice how cool
your Ukrainian has become and how natural it is.
And you will be proud of the fact
that you have regained the memory of your ancestors,
because our grandfathers and great-grandfathers spoke this
language  so the country of Israel
was revived out of nothingness, so it made the Hebrew language
because those Jews who lived in
all other territories and in Europe, they did not
communicate with this language, they had a
different language, for example, those who lived in the
territory of
present-day Ukraine and
communicated in the Yiddish language
if I'm not mistaken, the language
belonged to the Germanic novel. Yes,
it is more
similar to German than to any family of
languages, or is that the correct name?
But they
revived the language and now
I
can communicate.  in a year or
two, our country had a full-fledged
Ukrainian-speaking space, because your
Ukrainian is not only you, it is a whole market of
books, television, let's
say cartoons, and we aimed, the more native
speakers of the language, the more competitive it
will be, because the publisher will look at And it is
profitable to publish books in Ukrainian and
the number  the number of Ukrainian books will
increase not because there will be any
state subsidy, but because there is a market and
demand. We should all switch to
Ukrainian. You can't kill
Putin now. You can't
destroy the English air base now. Yes, personally,
but you can take a small step, a
big informational one.  war, switch to
Ukrainian,
so record your comments, this will not be an
open-ended campaign with us. Someone will
say, I was inspired, I recorded a video,
send it to me in Telegram, do you drop it
in other messengers,
I will show these people on our streams,
you who recorded these videos, your
sincere smiles, your sincere feelings. Yes,
someone  there will be wards saying Cool I
switched to Ukrainian And someone will say
I decided to come and I will see
the experiences, but these are your living emotions, you are
all alive People, each individuality You
should not be ashamed of yourself, you should not be
ashamed of your emotions, your experiences
You should live to the fullest
share with everyone  the world with its experience of
Ukrainization
Glory to Ukraine